Cyber Security: 
Is the technology and process that is designed to protect networks and devices from attack, damage, or Unauthorized access. 

Adv: 
Protection of business ,
Increased productivity,
inspired customer confidence. 
Stop your website from crashing
Protection for your customers or clients

Why Cyber Security: 

Main Pillers of Cyber Security: Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability have served as the Industry standard for computer security since the time of first mainframes, also known as CIA. 

Confidentiality: 

The principles of confidentiality assert that information and funtions can be accessed by Authorized parties. (Secrets)

Integrity:

The principles of integrity assert that information and funtions can be added, altered or removed only by authorized people and means. (EX: Incorrrect data entered by a user in database.)

Availability: 

The principles of availability assert that system, funtions and data must be available on demand according to agreed-upon parameters based on the levels of service. 

Threats to CIA - Cybercrime: 

Cybercrime is any criminal activity that involves a computer, network device or a network. 

Most cybercrimes are carried out in order to generate profit for the cyber criminals. 

Cybercrimes are carried out against computers or devices directly to damage or disable them, spread malware, steal secret information, etc.  

Types of Cybercrime: 

Computer assisted crimes: criminal activities carried out using computers as mere tools and or not specific to computers. -- DOS

Computer as the target crimes: criminal activities focused on systems, servers, networks, and data stored on these systems. -- Sniffing, Viruses. 

Computers Incidental to the crimes: These are the crimes where a computer is related or incidental to the crime. A crime could occur without the use of the computer. -- List of customers for traffickers. 

Motives behind Cybercrime: 

Distrupting business continuity
Information theft and manipulating data. 
creating fear and chaos by distrupting critical infrastructure. 
Financial loss to the target
Archiving state's military objectives
Demanding ransom
Damaging reputation of the target. 
Propagating religious or political beliefs

Types of Hackers:

Black Hat: 
Individuals with extraordinary computing skills resorting to malicious or distructive activities. 

Grey Hat: 
Individuals who work both offensively and Defensively at various times. 

White Hat: 
Individual professing hacker skills and using them for defensive purposes and also known as Security Analyst. 

Suicide Hackers: 

Individuals who aim to bring drown critical infrastructure for a cause and are not worried about facing jail terms or any other punishment.

Script kiddie: 

An unskilled hacker who compromises system by running scripts, tools and software developed by the real hacker. 

Cyber Terrorist: 

Individuals with wide range of skills motivated by religious or political beliefs to creat fear by large scale distruption of computer networks. 

State Sponsored Hacker: 

Individuals employed  by the government to penetrate and gain top-secret information and to damage information systems of other governments. 

Hacktivist: 

Individuals who promote a political agenda by hacking, especially defacing or disabling websites. 


Most Common attack in Cyber Security. 

01. DOS(Denial of Service)
02. Malware Attack
03. Man in the Middle attack (MITM)
04. Phishing
05. Drive by Attack
06. Cross-Site Scripting Attack (XSS)
07. Password Attack
08. Eavesdropping Attack 
09. SQL Injection Attack (SQLi)
10. Birthday Attack

History: 

1980's - MNC Database (Pentagon and IBM) 
1990's - National crackdown on criminals - MS NT OS pieced. 
2001 - eBay, CNN, AMZ, etc. 
2007 - Bank Hit (Swedish bank Nordea record nearly Doller - 1M has been stolen. 
2013 - Abobe 2.9M accounts stolen
2016 - 758M malicious attacks occured according to Kaspersky. 

How does Cyber Security Works:

Securing Computer : 
  1. 2-Way Authentication
  2. Secure Passwords
  3. Regular Updates
  4. Antivirus(AV) 
  5. Firewall (FW)
  6. No Phishing
  7. Cyptography(Encryption) 
  8. Securing DNS
  
Who is a Cyber Security Expert: 

A Cyber Security expert is an individual employed by an organization to protect their data. 

They do this through a variety of techniques , such as;

i, Finding Weakness (Vuln Scan)
ii, Monitor System 
iii, N/W Breach

After they find weakness they repair and then strengthen the areas where an attack may have occured. 

Domains in Cyber Security: 

1. Asset Security - Applications, devices, networks etc. 
2. Security architecture and engineering - consistent infratriucture with how the security needs to be implemented. 
3. Communication and network security
4. Identity and Access management 
5. Security Operation
6. Security assessment and testing
7. Software development security 
8. Security and Risk Management 

Courses and Certification: 

Base - CompTIA Security+ 501
Intermediate - Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) 
Management - CISSP - High Level Management level Cert
Business Level - CISA, CISM, CRISC, CCSP